Proteins play innumerable roles throughout the biological world.
Some of these proteins transport nutrients throughout the body.
And some of them help chemical reactions to occur at a faster rate.
Others build the foundation for living things
Despite this wide range of functions, all proteins are composed of the same 21 building blocks
Lumps, called amino acids.
Amino acids are made of carbon, oxygen, nitrogen, and hydrogen, and some contain sulfur atoms.
Selenostestin is the only standard amino acid that contains selenium atom.
These atoms form an amino group, a carboxyl group, and a side chain attached to the central
Carbon atom.
The side chain is the only part that varies from amino acids to amino acids
Its characteristics.
Hydrophobic amino acids have a rich carbon side chains, which do not interact well with water.
Aqueous or polar amino acids interact well with water.
Charged amino acids interact with opposing charged amino acids or other molecules.
The basic structure of the protein
Linear sequence of amino acids as encoded by DNA.
The amino acids are bound into the protein peptide bond, which binds the amino group
From one amino acid to another carboxyl group.
The water molecule is released every time a bond may be.
A linked chain of carbon, nitrogen, and oxygen atoms make up the protein backbone.
These protein chains are often divided into two types of secondary structures: alpha rings, or
Beta sheet.
The alpha helix is ​​stabilized in the right coil by hydrogen bonds between the amine and the carboxyl
Groups of proximal amino acids.
Beta plates are formed when hydrogen bonds stabilize two or more adjacent branches.
The third protein structure is a three-dimensional shape of a protein chain.
This shape is determined by the properties of the amino acids that make up the chain.
Many proteins form spherical shapes with hydrophobic side chains protected inside, away from
Surrounding waters.
Membrane-bound proteins have a hydrophobic residue grouped together on the outside, so that
They can interact with the lipid in the membrane.
Charged amino acids allow proteins to interact with molecules that have complementary charges.
The functions of many proteins depend on three-dimensional shapes.
For example, hemoglobin forms a pocket of heme nodes, a small molecule with an iron atom
At the center that connects the oxygen.
Two or more polypeptide chains can come together to form one functional molecule with several
Sub units.
The four hemoglobin subunits are cooperating so that the compound can capture more oxygen
In the lungs and released in the body.
Various visual representations of proteins can give us visual clues about protein
Installation and function.
This space-filling graph shows all the atoms that make up this protein.
This representation, called a strip or cardboard graph, shows protein regulation
The backbone and alpha rings are highlighted.
This surface representation shows the accessible regions of the water molecules.
Most proteins are smaller than the wavelength of light.
For example, the hemoglobin molecule is about 6.5 nanometers in size.
Hemoglobin is found in a high concentration in red blood cells.
Typical red blood cells contain about 280 million hemoglobin molecules.
3D shapes of proteins determine their function.
Flexible weapons of antibodies protect us from disease through recognition and binding to
Pathogens are targeting for destruction by the immune system.
The hormone insulin is a small and stable protein that can easily maintain its shape while traveling
Through the blood to regulate glucose in the blood level.
Alpha amylase is an enzyme that starts digesting from starch in our saliva.
The calcium pump is aided by magnesium and ATP supported
To transfer calcium ions back into the sarcoplasmic reticulum after each muscle contraction.
Ferritin is a spherical protein with channels that allow iron atoms to enter and exit
Depending on the needs of the organism.
In the form of ferritin within a hollow space with atoms, continued to the ener
Wall.
Ferritin stores iron in a non-toxic form.
Collagen forms a strong triple helix that is used throughout the body for structural support
Collagen molecules can form elongated fibers that combine to form collagen fibers.
This type of collagen is found in the skin and tendons.
Learn more about the functions and 3D structures of proteins and other molecular machines in
And precipitate the data bank protein.